SOURCE: Wikipedia — Retrieval-augmented generation
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

# Retrieval-augmented generation


Retrieval-augmented generation  ( RAG ) is a technique that enables  large language models  (LLMs) to retrieve and incorporate new information from external data sources.  With RAG, LLMs first refer to a specified set of documents, then respond to user queries. These documents supplement information from the LLM's pre-existing  training data .  This allows LLMs to use domain-specific and/or updated information that is not available in the training data.  For example, this enables LLM-based  chatbots  to access internal company data or generate responses based on authoritative sources.

RAG improves LLMs by incorporating  information retrieval  before generating responses.  Unlike LLMs that rely on static training data, RAG pulls relevant text from databases, uploaded documents, or web sources.  According to  Ars Technica , "RAG is a way of improving LLM performance, in essence by blending the LLM process with a web search or other document look-up process to help LLMs stick to the facts." This method helps reduce  AI hallucinations ,  which have caused chatbots to describe policies that don't exist, or recommend nonexistent legal cases to lawyers that are looking for citations to support their arguments.

RAG also reduces the need to retrain LLMs with new data, saving on computational and financial costs.  Beyond efficiency gains, RAG also allows LLMs to include sources in their responses, so users can verify the cited sources. This provides greater transparency, as users can cross-check retrieved content to ensure accuracy and relevance.

The term and framework were introduced in 2020 by Patrick Lewis and colleagues at Facebook AI Research in their paper "Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks", presented at the  Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems  (NeurIPS 2020).  The paper described combining a parametric language model with a non-parametric external memory accessed through retrieval at inference time.

LLMs can provide incorrect information. For example, when Google first demonstrated its LLM tool " Google Bard " (later re-branded to Gemini), the LLM provided incorrect information about the  James Webb Space Telescope . This error contributed to a $100 billion decline in  Google's  stock value.  RAG is used to prevent these errors, but it does not solve all the problems. For example, LLMs can generate misinformation even when pulling from factually correct sources if they misinterpret the context.  MIT Technology Review  gives the example of an AI-generated response stating, "The United States has had one Muslim president, Barack Hussein Obama." The model retrieved this from an academic book rhetorically titled  Barack Hussein Obama: America's First Muslim President?  The LLM did not "know" or "understand" the context of the title, generating a false statement.

LLMs with RAG are programmed to prioritize new information. This technique has been called "prompt stuffing." Without prompt stuffing, the LLM's input is generated by a user; with prompt stuffing, additional relevant context is added to this input to guide the model's response. This approach provides the LLM with key information early in the prompt, encouraging it to prioritize the supplied data over pre-existing training knowledge.

Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) enhances  large language models  (LLMs) by incorporating an  information-retrieval  mechanism that allows models to access and utilize additional data beyond their original training set.  Ars Technica  notes that "when new information becomes available, rather than having to retrain the model, all that's needed is to augment the model's external knowledge base with the updated information" ("augmentation").  IBM states that "in the generative phase, the LLM draws from the augmented prompt and its internal representation of its training data to synthesize" an answer.

Typically, the data to be referenced is converted into LLM  embeddings , numerical representations in the form of a large vector space. RAG can be used on unstructured (usually text), semi-structured, or structured data (for example  knowledge graphs ). These embeddings are then stored in a  vector database  to allow for  document retrieval .

Given a user query, a document retriever is first called to select the most relevant documents that will be used to augment the query.  This comparison can be done using a variety of methods, which depend in part on the type of indexing used.

The model feeds this relevant retrieved information into the LLM via  prompt engineering  of the user's original query. Newer implementations (as of 2023 ) can also incorporate specific augmentation modules with abilities such as expanding queries into multiple domains and using memory and self-improvement to learn from previous retrievals.

Finally, the LLM can generate output based on both the query and the retrieved documents.  Some models incorporate extra steps to improve output, such as the re-ranking of retrieved information, context selection, and  fine-tuning .

Retrieval-augmented generation is used in applications where generated responses need to be grounded in external or frequently updated information.

In healthcare, RAG has been studied as a way to ground large language model outputs in external medical knowledge sources, although reviews have noted continuing challenges around evaluation, ethics, and clinical reliability.

Improvements to the basic process above can be applied at different stages in the RAG flow.

These methods focus on the encoding of text as either dense or sparse vectors.  Sparse vectors , which encode the identity of a word, are typically  dictionary -length and contain mostly zeros.  Dense vectors , which encode meaning, are more compact and contain fewer zeros. Various enhancements can improve the way similarities are calculated in the vector stores (databases).

These methods aim to enhance the quality of document retrieval in vector databases:

By redesigning the language model with the retriever in mind, a 25-time smaller network can get comparable perplexity as its much larger counterparts.  Because it is trained from scratch, this method (Retro) incurs the high cost of training runs that the original RAG scheme avoided. The hypothesis is that by giving domain knowledge during training, Retro needs less focus on the domain and can devote its smaller weight resources only to language semantics. The redesigned language model is shown here.

It has been reported that Retro is not reproducible, so modifications were made to make it so.  The more reproducible version is called Retro++ and includes in-context RAG.

Chunking involves various strategies for breaking up the data into vectors so the retriever can find details in it.

Sometimes vector database searches can miss key facts needed to answer a user's question. One way to mitigate this is to do a traditional text search, add those results to the text chunks linked to the retrieved vectors from the vector search, and feed the combined hybrid text into the language model for generation.

RAG does not prevent hallucinations in LLMs. According to  Ars Technica , "It is not a direct solution because the LLM can still hallucinate around the source material in its response."

While RAG improves the accuracy of large language models (LLMs), it does not eliminate all challenges. One limitation is that while RAG reduces the need for frequent model retraining, it does not remove it entirely. Additionally, LLMs may struggle to recognize when they lack sufficient information to provide a reliable response. Without specific training, models may generate answers even when they should indicate uncertainty. According to  IBM , this issue can arise when the model lacks the ability to assess its own knowledge limitations.

RAG systems may retrieve factually correct but misleading sources, leading to errors in interpretation. In some cases, an LLM may extract statements from a source without considering its context, resulting in an incorrect conclusion. Additionally, when faced with conflicting information, RAG models may struggle to determine which source is accurate. The worst case outcome of this limitation is that the model may combine details from multiple sources producing responses that merge outdated and updated information in a misleading manner. According to the  MIT Technology Review , these issues occur because RAG systems may misinterpret the data they retrieve.